MOVIE TICKET BOOKING SYSTEM

Going to cinemas has been the culture of almost all the families of today’s generation. It
is a time when the family can spend some time altogether by stealing some hours from
their busy schedule. Cinemas help in contributing in our daily memories as they provide
an essential part of our culture.
Movie ticket booking is an application that allows the movie theatre owner and the viewers
to handle all the cinema activities quickly and safely. Using Interactive GUI anyone can
quickly learn to use the complete system.
By using this system the owner doesn’t have to sit and manage the entire activities on
paper. And at the same time, owner will feel comfortable to keep a check on the cinema.
This system will give them power and flexibility to manage the entire system from a single
application.
Movie ticket booking reservation provides ticket bookings for the film, seat management,
ticket cancellation and payment services. The system will be so simple and attractive
which will make the audiences/viewers comfortable to use and choose their movie along
with desired seat no and seat position.
The system allows the Owner to check the Progress of ticket reservation from interactive
Graphs. The system allows the owner to keep track on available seats for a particular
movie and even maintain various details of the audiences.
Viewers can view the movies which are being shown in the theatre or the ones which are
going to be released for a short while along with their show timings and also book the
tickets online through online payments using various payment gateways like
ATM/Credit/Debit cards.

MODULES OF MOVIE TICKET BOOKING SYSTEM:

Owner Profile:

The owner has full access to the system. The owner can graphically view all the details,
and he has the authority to change the Cost of tickets, ticket Availability and much more.
The owner is provided with an id and password.
He can put various kinds of notifications. He can also check the details of seats left and
seats reserved. He can also monitor the transactions made throughout the day and the
month and an algorithm will check the progress in the booking of tickets.
He also can give various kinds of offers to the viewers. He can also keep some seats
hidden from the users for their offline reservation. He can add new movies and their show
timings. Also, he can delete some videos.

Viewer Profile:

In Viewer profile, the viewer can check the availability of tickets and their category. The
category can be silver, gold or platinum and they can also book their ticket according to
their budget and need. Viewer profile contains their name, Contact details, address, and
other necessary personal data, etc.
They need to sign-up for booking the movie ticket, which will make them as well as the
manager or the owner of the hall to interact with each other easily. They can pay the
amount Online, and if they need to make payment Offline, they must deposit some
advance amount to confirm their movie ticket.

Manager Profile:

In Manager Profile, who so ever is the Manager he must log-in and then he can book the
tickets of the film for the viewers, and this will serve the viewers in offline mode.
When he will log-in into the system, his attendance will be taken, and it will be easy for
the owner to monitor them. Here they will also get a notification of booked room so that
they can beforehand maintain the place.

Ticket Booking:

The viewer can quickly search for the desired movie and the number of seats from the
various options available.This all will be so user-friendly that the audience will not find any
trouble in booking the movie ticket.
Once the available movies are searched, and viewer finds the movie of his choice then
this module helps the audience to book the film. If everything is done properly, he will be
asked to pay partial or complete money. And then he will be forwarded to Payment
Gateway where he can quickly pay Online.

Movie module:

This module will help the viewer to see the details of the movies available for the show.
He can even search for any specific film. The number of seats available will be displayed
to the viewer along with their timings and the cost of different types of tickets.
Then he can reserve the required tickets. The information of upcoming movies will also
be displayed to the viewers.

Hall module:

It deals with the information of the rooms available for the video shows.Some multiplexes
are there.In each multiplex four buildings are there, so the reservation of tickets goes
according to the availability of seats in the multiplexes.

Payment Details:

After filling the details like the name of the movie, category of cards, the timings of the
show and the number of seats to be reserved, the viewers need to pay the money using
different options available like cash/net banking/ATM card/credit/debit card.
Payment portal would use a payment gateway to remove the fees. Once payment will
clear receipt of payment will be generated automatically and the message will be sent to
the viewer on his mobile.
Once payment will clear receipt of payment will be created automatically and the message
will be directed to the viewer on his mobile.
Add / update / delete movie / Booking Details:
The owner can also easily add, update, or delete the movie, its show timings and the cost
of different categories of the tickets.
